diagram.md, before:

---
---

# Matroska Structure

A Matroska file MUST be composed of at least one `EBML Document` using the `Matroska Document Type`. Each `EBML Document` MUST start with an `EBML Header` and MUST be followed by the `EBML Root Element`, defined as `Segment` in Matroska. Matroska defines several `Top Level Elements` which MAY occur within the `Segment`.

As an example, a simple Matroska file consisting of a single `EBML Document` could be represented like this:

- `EBML Header`
- `Segment`

A more complex Matroska file consisting of an `EBML Stream` (consisting of two `EBML Documents`) could be represented like this:

- `EBML Header`
- `Segment`
- `EBML Header`
- `Segment`

The following diagram represents a simple Matroska file, comprised of an `EBML Document` with an `EBML Header`, a `Segment Element` (the `Root Element`), and all eight Matroska `Top Level Elements`. In the following diagrams of this section, horizontal spacing expresses a parent-child relationship between Matroska Elements (e.g. the `Info Element` is contained within the `Segment Element`) whereas vertical alignment represents the storage order within the file.

```
+-------------+
| EBML Header |
+---------------------------+
| Segment     | SeekHead    |
|             |-------------|
|             | Info        |
|             |-------------|
|             | Tracks      |
|             |-------------|
|             | Chapters    |
|             |-------------|
|             | Cluster     |
|             |-------------|
|             | Cues        |
|             |-------------|
|             | Attachments |
|             |-------------|
|             | Tags        |
+---------------------------+
```

The Matroska `EBML Schema` defines eight `Top Level Elements`: `SeekHead`, `Info`, `Tracks`, `Chapters`, `Cluster`, `Cues`, `Attachments`, and `Tags`.

The `SeekHead Element` (also known as `MetaSeek`) contains an index of `Top Level Elements` locations within the `Segment`. Use of the `SeekHead Element` is RECOMMENDED. Without a `SeekHead Element`, a Matroska parser would have to search the entire file to find all of the other `Top Level Elements`. This is due to Matroska's flexible ordering requirements; for instance, it is acceptable for the `Chapters Element` to be stored after the `Cluster Elements`.

```
+--------------------------------+
| SeekHead | Seek | SeekID       |
|          |      |--------------|
|          |      | SeekPosition |
+--------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of a `SeekHead Element`.

The `Info Element` contains vital information for identifying the whole `Segment`. This includes the title for the `Segment`, a randomly generated unique identifier, and the unique identifier(s) of any linked `Segment Elements`.

```
+-------------------------+
| Info | SegmentUID       |
|      |------------------|
|      | SegmentFilename  |
|      |------------------|
|      | PrevUID          |
|      |------------------|
|      | PrevFilename     |
|      |------------------|
|      | NextUID          |
|      |------------------|
|      | NextFilename     |
|      |------------------|
|      | SegmentFamily    |
|      |------------------|
|      | ChapterTranslate |
|      |------------------|
|      | TimecodeScale    |
|      |------------------|
|      | Duration         |
|      |------------------|
|      | DateUTC          |
|      |------------------|
|      | Title            |
|      |------------------|
|      | MuxingApp        |
|      |------------------|
|      | WritingApp       |
|-------------------------|
```
Figure: Representation of an `Info Element` and its `Child Elements`.

The `Tracks Element` defines the technical details for each track and can store the name, number, unique identifier, language and type (audio, video, subtitles, etc.) of each track. For example, the `Tracks Element` MAY store information about the resolution of a video track or sample rate of an audio track.

The `Tracks Element` MUST identify all the data needed by the codec to decode the data of the specified track. However, the data required is contingent on the codec used for the track. For example, a `Track Element` for uncompressed audio only requires the audio bit rate to be present. A codec such as AC-3 would require that the `CodecID Element` be present for all tracks, as it is the primary way to identify which codec to use to decode the track.

```
+------------------------------------+
| Tracks | TrackEntry | TrackNumber  |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | TrackUID     |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | TrackType    |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | Name         |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | Language     |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | CodecID      |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | CodecPrivate |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | CodecName    |
|        |            |----------------------------------+
|        |            | Video        | FlagInterlaced    |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | FieldOrder        |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | StereoMode        |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | AlphaMode         |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | PixelWidth        |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | PixelHeight       |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | DisplayWidth      |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | DisplayHeight     |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | AspectRatioType   |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | Color             |
|        |            |----------------------------------|
|        |            | Audio        | SamplingFrequency |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | Channels          |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | BitDepth          |
|--------------------------------------------------------|

```
Figure: Representation of the `Tracks Element` and a selection of its `Descendant Elements`.

The `Chapters Element` lists all of the chapters. Chapters are a way to set predefined points to jump to in video or audio.

```
+-----------------------------------------+
| Chapters | Edition | EditionUID         |
|          | Entry   |--------------------|
|          |         | EditionFlagHidden  |
|          |         |--------------------|
|          |         | EditionFlagDefault |
|          |         |--------------------|
|          |         | EditionFlagOrdered |
|          |         |--------------------------------+
|          |         | ChapterAtom | ChapterUID       |
|          |         |             |------------------|
|          |         |             | ChapterStringUID |
|          |         |             |------------------|
|          |         |             | ChapterTimeStart |
|          |         |             |------------------|
|          |         |             | ChapterTimeEnd   |
|          |         |             |------------------|
|          |         |             | ChapterFlagHidden |
|          |         |             |---------------------------------+
|          |         |             | ChapterDisplay   | ChapString   |
|          |         |             |                  |--------------|
|          |         |             |                  | ChapLanguage |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of the `Chapters Element` and a selection of its `Descendant Elements`.

`Cluster Elements` contain the content for each track, e.g. video frames. A Matroska file SHOULD contain at least one `Cluster Element`. The `Cluster Element` helps to break up `SimpleBlock` or `BlockGroup Elements` and helps with seeking and error protection. It is RECOMMENDED that the size of each individual `Cluster Element` be limited to store no more than 5 seconds or 5 megabytes. Every `Cluster Element` MUST contain a `Timecode Element`. This SHOULD be the `Timecode Element` used to play the first `Block` in the `Cluster Element`. There SHOULD be one or more `BlockGroup` or `SimpleBlock Element` in each `Cluster Element`. A `BlockGroup Element` MAY contain a `Block` of data and any information relating directly to that `Block`.

```
+--------------------------+
| Cluster | Timecode       |
|         |----------------|
|         | SilentTracks   |
|         |----------------|
|         | Position       |
|         |----------------|
|         | PrevSize       |
|         |----------------|
|         | SimpleBlock    |
|         |----------------|
|         | BlockGroup     |
|         |----------------|
|         | EncryptedBlock |
+--------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of a `Cluster Element` and its immediate `Child Elements`.

```
+----------------------------------+
| Block | Portion of | Data Type   |
|       | a Block    |  - Bit Flag |
|       |--------------------------+
|       | Header     | TrackNumber |
|       |            |-------------|
|       |            | Timecode    |
|       |            |-------------|
|       |            | Flags       |
|       |            |  - Gap      |
|       |            |  - Lacing   |
|       |            |  - Reserved |
|       |--------------------------|
|       | Optional   | FrameSize   |
|       |--------------------------|
|       | Data       | Frame       |  
+----------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of the `Block Element` structure.  

Each `Cluster` MUST contain exactly one `Timecode Element`. The `Timecode Element` value MUST be stored once per `Cluster`. The `Timecode Element` in the `Cluster` is relative to the entire `Segment`. The `Timecode Element` SHOULD be the first `Element` in the `Cluster`.

Additionally, the `Block` contains an offset that, when added to the `Cluster`'s `Timecode Element` value, yields the `Block`'s effective timecode. Therefore, timecode in the `Block` itself is relative to the `Timecode Element` in the `Cluster`. For example, if the `Timecode Element` in the `Cluster` is set to 10 seconds and a `Block` in that `Cluster` is supposed to be played 12 seconds into the clip, the timecode in the `Block` would be set to 2 seconds.

The `ReferenceBlock` in the `BlockGroup` is used instead of the basic "P-frame"/"B-frame" description. Instead of simply saying that this `Block` depends on the `Block` directly before, or directly afterwards, the `Timecode` of the necessary `Block` is used. Because there can be as many `ReferenceBlock Elements` as necessary for a `Block`, it allows for some extremely complex referencing.

The `Cues Element` is used to seek when playing back a file by providing a temporal index for some of the `Tracks`. It is similar to the `SeekHead Element`, but used for seeking to a specific time when playing back the file. It is possible to seek without this element, but it is much more difficult because the player has to 'hunt and peck' through the file looking for the correct timecode.

The `Cues Element` SHOULD contain at least one `CuePoint Element`. Each `CuePoint Element` stores the position of the `Cluster` that contains the `BlockGroup` or `SimpleBlock Element`. The timecode is stored in the `CueTime Element` and location is stored in the `CueTrackPositions Element`.

The `Cues Element` is flexible. For instance, `Cues Element` can be used to index every single timecode of every `Block` or they can be indexed selectively. For video files, it is RECOMMENDED to index at least the keyframes of the video track.

```
+-------------------------------------+
| Cues | CuePoint | CueTime           |
|      |          |-------------------|
|      |          | CueTrackPositions |
|      |------------------------------|
|      | CuePoint | CueTime           |
|      |          |-------------------|
|      |          | CueTrackPositions |
+-------------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of a `Cues Element` and two levels of its `Descendant Elements`.

The `Attachments Element` is for attaching files to a Matroska file such as pictures, webpages, programs, or even the codec needed to play back the file.

```
+------------------------------------------------+
| Attachments | AttachedFile | FileDescription   |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileName          |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileMimeType      |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileData          |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileUID           |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileName          |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileReferral      |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileUsedStartTime |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileUsedEndTime   |
+------------------------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of a `Attachments Element`.

The `Tags Element` contains metadata that describes the `Segment` and potentially its `Tracks`, `Chapters`, and `Attachments`. Each `Track` or `Chapter` that those tags applies to has its UID listed in the `Tags`. The `Tags` contain all extra information about the file: scriptwriter, singer, actors, directors, titles, edition, price, dates, genre, comments, etc. Tags can contain their values in multiple languages. For example, a movie's "title" `Tag` might contain both the original English title as well as the title it was released as in Germany.

```
+-------------------------------------------+
| Tags | Tag | Targets   | TargetTypeValue  |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TargetType       |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagTrackUID      |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagEditionUID    |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagChapterUID    |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagAttachmentUID |
|      |     |------------------------------|
|      |     | SimpleTag | TagName          |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagLanguage      |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagDefault       |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagString        |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagBinary        |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | SimpleTag        |
+-------------------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of a `Tags Element` and three levels of its `Children Elements`.

Commit message:

rename timecode* to timestamp*
- keep the case intact
- keep the same cppname as the original name

diagram.md, after:

---
---

# Matroska Structure

A Matroska file MUST be composed of at least one `EBML Document` using the `Matroska Document Type`. Each `EBML Document` MUST start with an `EBML Header` and MUST be followed by the `EBML Root Element`, defined as `Segment` in Matroska. Matroska defines several `Top Level Elements` which MAY occur within the `Segment`.

As an example, a simple Matroska file consisting of a single `EBML Document` could be represented like this:

- `EBML Header`
- `Segment`

A more complex Matroska file consisting of an `EBML Stream` (consisting of two `EBML Documents`) could be represented like this:

- `EBML Header`
- `Segment`
- `EBML Header`
- `Segment`

The following diagram represents a simple Matroska file, comprised of an `EBML Document` with an `EBML Header`, a `Segment Element` (the `Root Element`), and all eight Matroska `Top Level Elements`. In the following diagrams of this section, horizontal spacing expresses a parent-child relationship between Matroska Elements (e.g. the `Info Element` is contained within the `Segment Element`) whereas vertical alignment represents the storage order within the file.

```
+-------------+
| EBML Header |
+---------------------------+
| Segment     | SeekHead    |
|             |-------------|
|             | Info        |
|             |-------------|
|             | Tracks      |
|             |-------------|
|             | Chapters    |
|             |-------------|
|             | Cluster     |
|             |-------------|
|             | Cues        |
|             |-------------|
|             | Attachments |
|             |-------------|
|             | Tags        |
+---------------------------+
```

The Matroska `EBML Schema` defines eight `Top Level Elements`: `SeekHead`, `Info`, `Tracks`, `Chapters`, `Cluster`, `Cues`, `Attachments`, and `Tags`.

The `SeekHead Element` (also known as `MetaSeek`) contains an index of `Top Level Elements` locations within the `Segment`. Use of the `SeekHead Element` is RECOMMENDED. Without a `SeekHead Element`, a Matroska parser would have to search the entire file to find all of the other `Top Level Elements`. This is due to Matroska's flexible ordering requirements; for instance, it is acceptable for the `Chapters Element` to be stored after the `Cluster Elements`.

```
+--------------------------------+
| SeekHead | Seek | SeekID       |
|          |      |--------------|
|          |      | SeekPosition |
+--------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of a `SeekHead Element`.

The `Info Element` contains vital information for identifying the whole `Segment`. This includes the title for the `Segment`, a randomly generated unique identifier, and the unique identifier(s) of any linked `Segment Elements`.

```
+-------------------------+
| Info | SegmentUID       |
|      |------------------|
|      | SegmentFilename  |
|      |------------------|
|      | PrevUID          |
|      |------------------|
|      | PrevFilename     |
|      |------------------|
|      | NextUID          |
|      |------------------|
|      | NextFilename     |
|      |------------------|
|      | SegmentFamily    |
|      |------------------|
|      | ChapterTranslate |
|      |------------------|
|      | TimestampScale   |
|      |------------------|
|      | Duration         |
|      |------------------|
|      | DateUTC          |
|      |------------------|
|      | Title            |
|      |------------------|
|      | MuxingApp        |
|      |------------------|
|      | WritingApp       |
|-------------------------|
```
Figure: Representation of an `Info Element` and its `Child Elements`.

The `Tracks Element` defines the technical details for each track and can store the name, number, unique identifier, language and type (audio, video, subtitles, etc.) of each track. For example, the `Tracks Element` MAY store information about the resolution of a video track or sample rate of an audio track.

The `Tracks Element` MUST identify all the data needed by the codec to decode the data of the specified track. However, the data required is contingent on the codec used for the track. For example, a `Track Element` for uncompressed audio only requires the audio bit rate to be present. A codec such as AC-3 would require that the `CodecID Element` be present for all tracks, as it is the primary way to identify which codec to use to decode the track.

```
+------------------------------------+
| Tracks | TrackEntry | TrackNumber  |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | TrackUID     |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | TrackType    |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | Name         |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | Language     |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | CodecID      |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | CodecPrivate |
|        |            |--------------|
|        |            | CodecName    |
|        |            |----------------------------------+
|        |            | Video        | FlagInterlaced    |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | FieldOrder        |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | StereoMode        |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | AlphaMode         |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | PixelWidth        |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | PixelHeight       |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | DisplayWidth      |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | DisplayHeight     |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | AspectRatioType   |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | Color             |
|        |            |----------------------------------|
|        |            | Audio        | SamplingFrequency |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | Channels          |
|        |            |              |-------------------|
|        |            |              | BitDepth          |
|--------------------------------------------------------|

```
Figure: Representation of the `Tracks Element` and a selection of its `Descendant Elements`.

The `Chapters Element` lists all of the chapters. Chapters are a way to set predefined points to jump to in video or audio.

```
+-----------------------------------------+
| Chapters | Edition | EditionUID         |
|          | Entry   |--------------------|
|          |         | EditionFlagHidden  |
|          |         |--------------------|
|          |         | EditionFlagDefault |
|          |         |--------------------|
|          |         | EditionFlagOrdered |
|          |         |--------------------------------+
|          |         | ChapterAtom | ChapterUID       |
|          |         |             |------------------|
|          |         |             | ChapterStringUID |
|          |         |             |------------------|
|          |         |             | ChapterTimeStart |
|          |         |             |------------------|
|          |         |             | ChapterTimeEnd   |
|          |         |             |------------------|
|          |         |             | ChapterFlagHidden |
|          |         |             |---------------------------------+
|          |         |             | ChapterDisplay   | ChapString   |
|          |         |             |                  |--------------|
|          |         |             |                  | ChapLanguage |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of the `Chapters Element` and a selection of its `Descendant Elements`.

`Cluster Elements` contain the content for each track, e.g. video frames. A Matroska file SHOULD contain at least one `Cluster Element`. The `Cluster Element` helps to break up `SimpleBlock` or `BlockGroup Elements` and helps with seeking and error protection. It is RECOMMENDED that the size of each individual `Cluster Element` be limited to store no more than 5 seconds or 5 megabytes. Every `Cluster Element` MUST contain a `Timestamp Element`. This SHOULD be the `Timestamp Element` used to play the first `Block` in the `Cluster Element`. There SHOULD be one or more `BlockGroup` or `SimpleBlock Element` in each `Cluster Element`. A `BlockGroup Element` MAY contain a `Block` of data and any information relating directly to that `Block`.

```
+--------------------------+
| Cluster | Timestamp      |
|         |----------------|
|         | SilentTracks   |
|         |----------------|
|         | Position       |
|         |----------------|
|         | PrevSize       |
|         |----------------|
|         | SimpleBlock    |
|         |----------------|
|         | BlockGroup     |
|         |----------------|
|         | EncryptedBlock |
+--------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of a `Cluster Element` and its immediate `Child Elements`.

```
+----------------------------------+
| Block | Portion of | Data Type   |
|       | a Block    |  - Bit Flag |
|       |--------------------------+
|       | Header     | TrackNumber |
|       |            |-------------|
|       |            | Timestamp   |
|       |            |-------------|
|       |            | Flags       |
|       |            |  - Gap      |
|       |            |  - Lacing   |
|       |            |  - Reserved |
|       |--------------------------|
|       | Optional   | FrameSize   |
|       |--------------------------|
|       | Data       | Frame       |  
+----------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of the `Block Element` structure.  

Each `Cluster` MUST contain exactly one `Timestamp Element`. The `Timestamp Element` value MUST be stored once per `Cluster`. The `Timestamp Element` in the `Cluster` is relative to the entire `Segment`. The `Timestamp Element` SHOULD be the first `Element` in the `Cluster`.

Additionally, the `Block` contains an offset that, when added to the `Cluster`'s `Timestamp Element` value, yields the `Block`'s effective timestamp. Therefore, timestamp in the `Block` itself is relative to the `Timestamp Element` in the `Cluster`. For example, if the `Timestamp Element` in the `Cluster` is set to 10 seconds and a `Block` in that `Cluster` is supposed to be played 12 seconds into the clip, the timestamp in the `Block` would be set to 2 seconds.

The `ReferenceBlock` in the `BlockGroup` is used instead of the basic "P-frame"/"B-frame" description. Instead of simply saying that this `Block` depends on the `Block` directly before, or directly afterwards, the `Timestamp` of the necessary `Block` is used. Because there can be as many `ReferenceBlock Elements` as necessary for a `Block`, it allows for some extremely complex referencing.

The `Cues Element` is used to seek when playing back a file by providing a temporal index for some of the `Tracks`. It is similar to the `SeekHead Element`, but used for seeking to a specific time when playing back the file. It is possible to seek without this element, but it is much more difficult because the player has to 'hunt and peck' through the file looking for the correct timestamp.

The `Cues Element` SHOULD contain at least one `CuePoint Element`. Each `CuePoint Element` stores the position of the `Cluster` that contains the `BlockGroup` or `SimpleBlock Element`. The timestamp is stored in the `CueTime Element` and location is stored in the `CueTrackPositions Element`.

The `Cues Element` is flexible. For instance, `Cues Element` can be used to index every single timestamp of every `Block` or they can be indexed selectively. For video files, it is RECOMMENDED to index at least the keyframes of the video track.

```
+-------------------------------------+
| Cues | CuePoint | CueTime           |
|      |          |-------------------|
|      |          | CueTrackPositions |
|      |------------------------------|
|      | CuePoint | CueTime           |
|      |          |-------------------|
|      |          | CueTrackPositions |
+-------------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of a `Cues Element` and two levels of its `Descendant Elements`.

The `Attachments Element` is for attaching files to a Matroska file such as pictures, webpages, programs, or even the codec needed to play back the file.

```
+------------------------------------------------+
| Attachments | AttachedFile | FileDescription   |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileName          |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileMimeType      |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileData          |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileUID           |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileName          |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileReferral      |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileUsedStartTime |
|             |              |-------------------|
|             |              | FileUsedEndTime   |
+------------------------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of a `Attachments Element`.

The `Tags Element` contains metadata that describes the `Segment` and potentially its `Tracks`, `Chapters`, and `Attachments`. Each `Track` or `Chapter` that those tags applies to has its UID listed in the `Tags`. The `Tags` contain all extra information about the file: scriptwriter, singer, actors, directors, titles, edition, price, dates, genre, comments, etc. Tags can contain their values in multiple languages. For example, a movie's "title" `Tag` might contain both the original English title as well as the title it was released as in Germany.

```
+-------------------------------------------+
| Tags | Tag | Targets   | TargetTypeValue  |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TargetType       |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagTrackUID      |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagEditionUID    |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagChapterUID    |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagAttachmentUID |
|      |     |------------------------------|
|      |     | SimpleTag | TagName          |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagLanguage      |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagDefault       |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagString        |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | TagBinary        |
|      |     |           |------------------|
|      |     |           | SimpleTag        |
+-------------------------------------------+
```
Figure: Representation of a `Tags Element` and three levels of its `Children Elements`.
